Add How to deploy a pipeline to Google Cloud blog article (#85)
huggingface/blog: how-to-deploy-a-pipeline-to-google-clouds.md

app = Flask(__name__)

model_path = "./model"

@app.route('/')
def classifyReview():
review = request.args.get('review')
api_key = request.args.get('api_key')
if review is None or api_key != "MyCustomerApiKey":
return jsonify(code=403, message="bad request")
classify = pipeline("sentiment-analysis", model=model_path, tokenizer=model_path)
return classify("that was great")[0]

if __name__ == '__main__':
    # This is used when running locally only. When deploying to Google App
    # Engine, a webserver process such as Gunicorn will serve the app. This
    # can be configured by adding an `entrypoint` to app.yaml.
    app.run(debug=True, host="0.0.0.0", port=int(os.environ.get("PORT", 8080)))
```

I am getting the review that I need to analyse and return the result with thanks to the classify method of the pipeline.

Then the content of the `DockerFile`
```dockerfile
# Use Python37
FROM python:3.7
# Copy requirements.txt to the docker image and install packages
COPY requirements.txt /
RUN pip install -r requirements.txt
# Set the WORKDIR to be the folder
COPY . /app
# Expose port 5000
EXPOSE 5000
ENV PORT 5000
WORKDIR /app
# Use gunicorn as the entrypoint

> CMD exec gunicorn --bind :$PORT main:app --workers 1 --threads 1 --timeout 0

Reviewer: I think this line would need a comment, 1 worker with 1 thread is quite uncommon in the webdev world, why do we do this ? What do we gain ? What do we loose ?

Author: For billing reason I do not want to pay for 2 instances up at the same time, I can easily wait for my first request to be processed, then my second. I don't have a strict minimum time of response requirement that's why I used one worker.
Regarding the treads, the cloud run instance is limited to 4Gb meaning that if I open to 4 threads, my memory might be shared and might be 1Gb per thread. In that case, PyTorch might not have enough memory to load and do the prediction which would turn to a memory error.

Reviewer: Yes, what I wanted to infer is that this information should probably be said/displayed here.

The smallest version is a comment above this line.
It's a very important detail that readers might overlook IMO.

Author: Added in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

```

Finally, the `requirement.txt` file
```python
Flask==1.1.2
torch===1.7.1
transformers~=4.2.0
gunicorn>=20.0.0
```

## Deployment instructions

In order to deploy, we just need to build the image and deploy it to cloud run:

```shell
gcloud builds submit --tag gcr.io/pro-boost-test-env/ai-customer-review
gcloud run deploy --image gcr.io/pro-boost-test-env/ai-customer-review --platform managed
```

Where `ai-customer-review` is my project name.

You might also need to change the memory allocated from 256 MB to 4Go.

## Performances & Costs

> Handling a request takes less than 5 seconds from the moment you send the request including the cold start, loading the model, and prediction.

Reviewer: Warming the model (so that it's always in memory) will yield a very significant boost to request time. Consider at least mentioning that (ideally code example could contain it).

Author: Mentioned in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

I simulated the cost based on the cloud run instance configuration with [Google pricing simulator](https://cloud.google.com/products/calculator#id=cd314cba-1d9a-4bc6-a7c0-740bbf6c8a78)
![Estimate of the monthly cost](./assets/14_how_to_deploy_a_pipeline_to_google_clouds/Estimate_of_the_monthly_cost.png)
I would plan near 1,000 requests per months, if I'm really optimistic, 500 seems more correct for my usage. That's why I worked on 2,000 requests as a security level.
Due to that low number of requests, I didn't bother so much regarding the scalability but might come back into it if my billing increase.

> Nevertheless, it's important to stress out that you will pay the storage for each Gigabyte of your build image. It's roughly €0.10 per Gb per months which is fine if you don't keep all your versions on the cloud as my version is slightly above 1 Gb, with Pytorch for 700 Mb & the model for 250 Mb.

Reviewer: Very good comment !

> # How to deploy a pipeline to Google Cloud?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# My Journey to a serverless transformers pipeline on the Google Cloud
```

> This article will talk about my journey to deploy a Transformers pipeline (sentiment-analysis) to Google Cloud. We will start with a quick introduction then directly move to the technical part of the deployment. After that we'll cover the implementation and concludes on what has been achieved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This article will talk about my journey to provide a `transformers` pipeline (sentiment-analysis) to [Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com). We will start with a quick introduction to `transformers` and then move to the technical part of the implementation. In the end, we'll cover the implementation and concludes on what has been achieved.
```

> ## My aim

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## The Goal
```

I wanted to create a system that automatically detects whether a customer review is positive or negative in order to treat it accordingly and improve the customer experience.

> 

Reviewer 2: a screenshot of an example with an emoji and some color highlights would be a nice fit here.

Author: Added in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

Is that what you wanted?

![Customer_review](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38140638/111345115-41542680-867d-11eb-902b-2a142d3e294f.png)

Reviewer 2: Yes.

> ## Using transformers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## The Transformers library
```

> I have been a bit confused at the beginning when I downloaded the .h5 file, I basically thought it would be compatible with `tensorflow.models.load_model` but it wasn't the case. It was my first time using Transformers, after a few minutes of researched I figured out it was a checkpoint and not a model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I have been a bit confused at the beginning when I downloaded the .h5 file, I basically thought it would be compatible with `tensorflow.models.load_model` but it wasn't the case. It was my first time using `transformers`, after a few minutes of research I figured out it was a checkpoint and not a model.
```

> I have been a bit confused at the beginning when I downloaded the .h5 file, I basically thought it would be compatible with `tensorflow.models.load_model` but it wasn't the case. It was my first time using Transformers, after a few minutes of researched I figured out it was a checkpoint and not a model.

Reviewer 2: What have you done after you find out that it was only a checkpoint? What was your way from the checkpoint to the `pipeline`?

Author: I gave more details in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165. I didn't explain all the solutions I tried with TensorFlow/Keras as I don't exactly remember them.

Beside that fact using the pipeline was really easy, I can't think about an easier way.

Below the [official example](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers#quick-tour) from Transformers' GitHub.

> ```python=

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```python
```

from transformers import pipeline

# Allocate a pipeline for sentiment-analysis
classifier = pipeline('sentiment-analysis')
classifier('We are very happy to include pipeline into the transformers repository.')
[{'label': 'POSITIVE', 'score': 0.9978193640708923}]
```

> ## Deploying transformers to Google Cloud

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Deploy transformers to Google Cloud
```

> GCP is chosen as it is the cloud environment I am using in my personal organization.

### Step 1 - Research

> I already knew that something using flask (an API Service in fact) might be a solution so serve a model. I searched on Google Cloud in the AI section and found a service to host Tensorflow models named [AI-Platform Prediction](https://cloud.google.com/ai-platform/prediction/docs). I also found [App Engine](https://cloud.google.com/appengine) and [Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run) there, but I was concerned regarding the memory usage for appEngine and not really familiar with Docker for the CloudRun.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I already knew using an API-Service like `flask` is a solution to serve a `transformers` model. I searched on Google Clouds AI section and found a service to host Tensorflow models named [AI-Platform Prediction](https://cloud.google.com/ai-platform/prediction/docs). I also found [App Engine](https://cloud.google.com/appengine) and [Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run) there, but I was concerned regarding the memory usage for App Engine and not really familiar with Docker for the Cloud-Run.
```

### Step 2 - Test on AI-Platform Prediction

As the model is not a "pure TensorFlow" saved model but a checkpoint, and I couldn't turn it into a "pure TensorFlow model", I figured out [this page](https://cloud.google.com/ai-platform/prediction/docs/deploying-models) wouldn't work.

> From there I saw that I could do some customer code for it, allowing me to load the pipeline instead of having to handle the model, which seemed is easier. I also saw that I could do pre-prediction & post-prediction action, which could be useful in the future if I want to fine-tune it to best suits my use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From there I saw that I could do some custom code for it, allowing me to load the `pipeline` instead of having to handle the model, which seemed is easier. I also saw that I could do pre-prediction & post-prediction action, which could be useful in the future for pre- or post-processing the data for customer needs.
```

> I followed the Google's guide but encountered an issue as the service is still in beta and everything is not stable. This issue is detailed [in your GitHub](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/issues/9926).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I followed Google's guide but encountered an issue as the service is still in beta and everything is not stable. This issue is detailed [here](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/issues/9926).
```

> I try to upload the same code as what is[ here](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/issues/9926#issuecomment-770867976) but without transformers as dependency to see from where the issues come from? It seems like this system is not stable yet to be used with Transformers yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

this is a repeat of the last sentence, would remove it

### Step 3 - Test on App Engine

> I moved to AppEngine as it's a service that I know pretty well but encounter an installation issue with TensorFlow as a system dependency file was missing. I then tried with PyTorch and it worked with a F4_1G instance, but it couldn't handle more than 2 requests on the same instance, which isn't really great performance-wise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I moved to [App Engine](https://cloud.google.com/appengine) as it's a service that I am familiar with but encounter an installation issue with TensorFlow as a system dependency file was missing. I then tried with PyTorch and it worked with an F4_1G instance, but it couldn't handle more than 2 requests on the same instance, which isn't really great performance-wise.
```

### Step 4 - Test on Cloud Run

> Then, I moved to [cloud run](https://cloud.google.com/run) with a docker image of the same thing as I did with AppEngine. I followed [this guide](https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/quickstarts/build-and-deploy#python) to get the idea of how it works. There I could specify a higher memory/more VCPUs to perform the detection with PyTorch. I didn't try Tensorflow there as PyTorch seems to cold boot/load the model faster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lastly, I moved to [Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run) with a docker image. I followed [this guide](https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/quickstarts/build-and-deploy#python) to get an idea of how it works. In Cloud Run, I could configure a higher memory and more vCPUs to perform the prediction with PyTorch. I ditched Tensorflow as PyTorch seems to load the model faster.
```

> ## Implementation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Implementation of the serverless pipeline
```

> The service is divided into:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the solution consists of four different components: 
```

- `main.py` handling the request to the pipeline
- `Dockerfile` used to create the image that will be deployed on Cloud Run.
- Model folder having the `pytorch_model.bin`, `config.json` and `vocab.txt`.

> - `Requirement.txt` for installing the dependencies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `requirements.txt` for installing the dependencies
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

The content on the `main.py` is really simple:

> ```python=

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```python
```

import os
from flask import Flask, jsonify, request
from transformers import pipeline

app = Flask(__name__)

model_path = "./model"

@app.route('/')

> def classifyReview():

Reviewer 2: not sure if it is a `md` problem but the intents seem to be wrong

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

> def classifyReview():

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
def classify_review():
```
more pythonic

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

review = request.args.get('review')
api_key = request.args.get('api_key')

> if review is None or api_key != "MyCustomerApiKey":

Reviewer 2: not sure if this is necessary for the example since you don´t mention this anywhere

Author: Added in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

return jsonify(code=403, message="bad request")
classify = pipeline("sentiment-analysis", model=model_path, tokenizer=model_path)
return classify("that was great")[0]

if __name__ == '__main__':

>     # This is used when running locally only. When deploying to Google App

Reviewer 2: Would adjust the comment since it is not run on Google's App Engine

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

    # Engine, a webserver process such as Gunicorn will serve the app. This
    # can be configured by adding an `entrypoint` to app.yaml.

>     app.run(debug=True, host="0.0.0.0", port=int(os.environ.get("PORT", 8080)))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    app.run(debug=False, host="0.0.0.0", port=int(os.environ.get("PORT", 8080)))
```

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

```

> I am getting the review that I need to analyse and return the result with thanks to the classify method of the pipeline.

Reviewer 2: Would put this above the code and would make it a little more comprehensive.

Author: Added in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

> Then the content of the `DockerFile`

Reviewer 2: Same here. You can say in 1 or 2 sentences what the `dockerfile` is doing from top to bottom

Author: Added in https://github.com/iElsha/blog/commit/4faac7fcf4f493550f215af4cb6283f6a4c4639e

> ```dockerfile=

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```dockerfile
```

> ```dockerfile=

Reviewer 2: ```dockerfile
# Use the official lightweight Python image.
# https://hub.docker.com/_/python
FROM python:3.9-slim

# Allow statements and log messages to immediately appear in the Knative logs
ENV PYTHONUNBUFFERED True

# Copy local code to the container image.
ENV APP_HOME /app
WORKDIR $APP_HOME
COPY . ./

# Install production dependencies.
RUN pip install Flask gunicorn

# Run the web service on container startup. Here we use the gunicorn
# webserver, with one worker process and 8 threads.
# For environments with multiple CPU cores, increase the number of workers
# to be equal to the cores available.
CMD exec gunicorn --bind :$PORT --workers 1 --threads 8 --timeout 0 main:app
```

this is the official cloud run docker. 

You definitely use `ENV PYTHONUNBUFFERED True` to forward logs.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/4faac7fcf4f493550f215af4cb6283f6a4c4639e

# Use Python37
FROM python:3.7
# Copy requirements.txt to the docker image and install packages
COPY requirements.txt /
RUN pip install -r requirements.txt
# Set the WORKDIR to be the folder
COPY . /app
# Expose port 5000
EXPOSE 5000
ENV PORT 5000
WORKDIR /app
# Use gunicorn as the entrypoint
CMD exec gunicorn --bind :$PORT main:app --workers 1 --threads 1 --timeout 0
```

Finally, the `requirement.txt` file

> ```python=

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```python
```

Flask==1.1.2
torch===1.7.1
transformers~=4.2.0
gunicorn>=20.0.0
```

## Deployment instructions

> 

Reviewer 2: You are missing instructions/references to what someone has to do if they don´t have set up `gcloud` cli

Author: I added them in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/4faac7fcf4f493550f215af4cb6283f6a4c4639e

In order to deploy, we just need to build the image and deploy it to cloud run:

> ```shell=

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```shell
```

> gcloud builds submit --tag gcr.io/pro-boost-test-env/ai-customer-review

Reviewer 2: Do we need to create the `gcr` repository in advance or will it be created automatically?

Author: Added in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

gcloud run deploy --image gcr.io/pro-boost-test-env/ai-customer-review --platform managed
```

> Where `ai-customer-review` is my project name.

Reviewer 2: move above. An explanation should be read before someone executes something.

Author: Added in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

> You might also need to change the memory allocated from 256 MB to 4Go.

Reviewer 2: Where? and move it above too

Author: Added in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

## Performances & Costs

> Handling a request takes less than 5 seconds from the moment you send the request, the server cold boot,the model load to the prediction result.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Handling a request takes less than 5 seconds from the moment you send the request including the cold start, loading the model, and prediction.
```

Reviewer 2: Feel free to add an image of it using insomnia or postman to show that it works and how long it took.

Author: Added in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/056f454b39913c1e229ec46e4bb2676060fb9165

I simulated the cost based on the cloud run instance configuration with [Google pricing simulator](https://cloud.google.com/products/calculator#id=cd314cba-1d9a-4bc6-a7c0-740bbf6c8a78)
![Estimate of the monthly cost](./assets/14_how_to_deploy_a_pipeline_to_google_clouds/Estimate_of_the_monthly_cost.png)

> I would plan near 1,000 requests per months, if I'm really optimistic, 500 seems more correct for my usage. That's why I worked on 2,000 requests as a security level.

Reviewer 2: I guess you could describe your use case a bit more in the beginning in ## my aim. So the reader will know that you only have like 5k requests.

Author: done

Due to that low number of requests, I didn't bother so much regarding the scalability but might come back into it if my billing increase.

Nevertheless, it's important to stress out that you will pay the storage for each Gigabyte of your build image. It's roughly €0.10 per Gb per months which is fine if you don't keep all your versions on the cloud as my version is slightly above 1 Gb, with Pytorch for 700 Mb & the model for 250 Mb.

> ## Conclusions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Conclusion
```

# My Journey to a serverless transformers pipeline on the Google Cloud

> This article will discuss my journey to deploy the `transformers` _sentiment-analysis_ pipeline on [Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com). We will start with a quick introduction to `transformers` and then move to the technical part of the implementation. Finally, we'll summarize this implementation and review what we have achieved.

Reviewer 3: what's your huggingface.co account @iElsha? I will link to it here

Author: https://huggingface.co/Maxence

# My Journey to a serverless transformers pipeline on the Google Cloud

> This article will talk about my journey to provide a `transformers` pipeline, sentiment-analysis, to [Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com). We will start with a quick introduction to `transformers` and then move to the technical part of the implementation. In the end, we'll cover the implementation and concludes on what has been achieved.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This article will discuss my journey to deploy the `transformers` _sentiment-analysis_ pipeline on [Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com). We will start with a quick introduction to `transformers` and then move to the technical part of the implementation. Finally, we'll summarize this implementation and review what we have achieved.
```

## The Goal
![img.png](assets/14_how_to_deploy_a_pipeline_to_google_clouds/Customer_review.png)

> I wanted to create a micro-service that automatically detects whether a customer review left in Discord is positive or negative in order to treat it accordingly and improve the customer experience. For instance, if the review was negative, I could create a feature which would contact the customer, apologize for the poor quality of service then informing him that our support team will contact him as soon as possible to assist him and hopefully fix the problem. I didn't have any performance constraints especially regarding the time and the scaleability, as I don't plan more than 2,000 requests per month.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
I wanted to create a micro-service that automatically detects whether a customer review left in Discord is positive or negative. This would allow me to treat the comment accordingly and improve the customer experience. For instance, if the review was negative, I could create a feature which would contact the customer, apologize for the poor quality of service, and inform him that our support team will contact him as soon as possible to assist him and hopefully fix the problem. Since I don't plan to get more than 2,000 requests per month, I didn't impose any performance constraints regarding the time and the scalability.
```

> I wanted to create a micro-service that automatically detects whether a customer review left in Discord is positive or negative in order to treat it accordingly and improve the customer experience. For instance, if the review was negative, I could create a feature which would contact the customer, apologize for the poor quality of service then informing him that our support team will contact him as soon as possible to assist him and hopefully fix the problem. I didn't have any performance constraints especially regarding the time and the scaleability, as I don't plan more than 2,000 requests per month.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
I wanted to create a micro-service that automatically detects whether a customer review left in Discord is positive or negative in order to treat it accordingly and improve the customer experience. For instance, if the review was negative, I could create a feature which would contact the customer, apologize for the poor quality of service then informing him/her that our support team will contact him/her as soon as possible to assist and hopefully fix the problem. I didn't have any performance constraints especially regarding the time and the scalability, as I don't plan more than 2,000 requests per month.
```

## The Transformers library

> I have been a bit confused at the beginning when I downloaded the .h5 file, I basically thought it would be compatible with `tensorflow.models.load_model` but it wasn't the case. It was my first time using `transformers`, after a few minutes of research I figured out it was a checkpoint and not a model.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
I was a bit confused at the beginning when I downloaded the .h5 file. I thought it would be compatible with `tensorflow.keras.models.load_model`, but this wasn't the case. After a few minutes of research I was able to figure out that the file was a weights checkpoint rather than a Keras model.
```

> After that, I tried out the API that Hugging Face offers and read a bit more about the pipeline feature they offer. As the results of the API & the pipeline were great, I decided that I could server the model through the pipeline on my own server.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After that, I tried out the API that Hugging Face offers and read a bit more about the pipeline feature they offer. Since the results of the API & the pipeline were great, I decided that I could serve the model through the pipeline on my own server.
```

> After that, I tried out the API that Hugging Face offers and read a bit more about the pipeline feature they offer. As the results of the API & the pipeline were great, I decided that I could server the model through the pipeline on my own server.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
After that, I tried out the API that Hugging Face offers and read a bit more about the pipeline feature they offer. As the results of the API & the pipeline were great, I decided that I could serve the model through the pipeline on my own server.
```

> Below the [official example](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers#quick-tour) from Transformers' GitHub.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Below is the [official example](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers#quick-tour) from the Transformers GitHub page.
```

```python
from transformers import pipeline

# Allocate a pipeline for sentiment-analysis
classifier = pipeline('sentiment-analysis')
classifier('We are very happy to include pipeline into the transformers repository.')
[{'label': 'POSITIVE', 'score': 0.9978193640708923}]
```

## Deploy transformers to Google Cloud
> GCP is chosen as it is the cloud environment I am using in my personal organization.

> ### Step 1 - Researches

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Step 1 - Researche
```

> ### Step 1 - Researches

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Step 1 - Research
```

> I already knew using an API-Service like `flask` is a solution to serve a `transformers` model. I searched on Google Clouds AI section and found a service to host Tensorflow models named [AI-Platform Prediction](https://cloud.google.com/ai-platform/prediction/docs). I also found [App Engine](https://cloud.google.com/appengine) and [Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run) there, but I was concerned regarding the memory usage for App Engine and not really familiar with Docker for the Cloud-Run.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
I already knew that I could use an API-Service like `flask` to serve a `transformers` model. I searched in the Google Cloud AI documentation and found a service to host Tensorflow models named [AI-Platform Prediction](https://cloud.google.com/ai-platform/prediction/docs). I also found [App Engine](https://cloud.google.com/appengine) and [Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run) there, but I was concerned about the memory usage for App Engine and was not very familiar with Docker.
```

### Step 2 - Test on AI-Platform Prediction

> As the model is not a "pure TensorFlow" saved model but a checkpoint, and I couldn't turn it into a "pure TensorFlow model", I figured out [this page](https://cloud.google.com/ai-platform/prediction/docs/deploying-models) wouldn't work.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As the model is not a "pure TensorFlow" saved model but a checkpoint, and I couldn't turn it into a "pure TensorFlow model", I figured out that the example on [this page](https://cloud.google.com/ai-platform/prediction/docs/deploying-models) wouldn't work.
```

> From there I saw that I could do some custom code for it, allowing me to load the `pipeline` instead of having to handle the model, which seemed is easier. I also saw that I could do pre-prediction & post-prediction action, which could be useful in the future for pre- or post-processing the data for customers needs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
From there I saw that I could write some custom code, allowing me to load the `pipeline` instead of having to handle the model, which seemed is easier. I also learned that I could define a pre-prediction & post-prediction action, which could be useful in the future for pre- or post-processing the data for customers' needs.
```

I followed Google's guide but encountered an issue as the service is still in beta and everything is not stable. This issue is detailed [here](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/issues/9926).

### Step 3 - Test on App Engine

> I moved to [App Engine](https://cloud.google.com/appengine) as it's a service that I am familiar with but encounter an installation issue with TensorFlow as a system dependency file was missing. I then tried with PyTorch and it worked with an F4_1G instance, but it couldn't handle more than 2 requests on the same instance, which isn't really great performance-wise.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
I moved to Google's [App Engine](https://cloud.google.com/appengine) as it's a service that I am familiar with, but encountered an installation issue with TensorFlow due to a missing system dependency file. I then tried with PyTorch which worked with an F4_1G instance, but it couldn't handle more than 2 requests on the same instance, which isn't really great performance-wise.
```

### Step 4 - Test on Cloud Run

Lastly, I moved to [Cloud Run](https://cloud.google.com/run) with a docker image. I followed [this guide](https://cloud.google.com/run/docs/quickstarts/build-and-deploy#python) to get an idea of how it works. In Cloud Run, I could configure a higher memory and more vCPUs to perform the prediction with PyTorch. I ditched Tensorflow as PyTorch seems to load the model faster.

## Implementation of the serverless pipeline

> the solution consists of four different components: 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The final solution consists of four different components: 
```

- `main.py` handling the request to the pipeline
- `Dockerfile` used to create the image that will be deployed on Cloud Run.
- Model folder having the `pytorch_model.bin`, `config.json` and `vocab.txt`.
    - Model : [DistilBERT base uncased finetuned SST-2
      ](https://huggingface.co/distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english)

>     - To download the model folder, following the instructions in the button. ![img.png](assets/14_how_to_deploy_a_pipeline_to_google_clouds/Download_instructions_button.png)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - To download the model folder, follow the instructions in the button. ![img.png](assets/14_how_to_deploy_a_pipeline_to_google_clouds/Download_instructions_button.png)
```

    - You don't need to keep the `rust_model.ot` or the `tf_model.h5` as we will use [PyTorch](https://pytorch.org/).
- `requirement.txt` for installing the dependencies

The content on the `main.py` is really simple. The idea is to receive a `GET` request containing two fields. First the review that needs to be analysed, second the API key to "protect" the service. The second parameter is optional, I used it to avoid setting up the oAuth2 of Cloud Run. After these arguments are provided, we load the pipeline which is built based on the model `distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english` (provided above). In the end, the best match is returned to the client.

> which could be optional for you. I am getting the review that I need to analyse and return the result with thanks to the classify method of the pipeline.

Reviewer 4: I didn't quite understand this paragraph

Author: I forgot to remove this one, fixed in https://github.com/huggingface/blog/pull/85/commits/3325d1b5ab81cbfdad1e32f07d22899090707829

        return jsonify(code=403, message="bad request")
    classify = pipeline("sentiment-analysis", model=model_path, tokenizer=model_path)
    return classify("that was great")[0]

if __name__ == '__main__':
    # This is used when running locally only. When deploying to Google Cloud
    # Run, a webserver process such as Gunicorn will serve the app.
    app.run(debug=False, host="0.0.0.0", port=int(os.environ.get("PORT", 8080)))
```

Then the `DockerFile` which will be used to create a docker image of the service. We specify that our service runs with python:3.7, plus that we need to install our requirements. Then we use `gunicorn` to handle our process on the port `5000`.
```dockerfile
# Use Python37
FROM python:3.7
# Allow statements and log messages to immediately appear in the Knative logs
ENV PYTHONUNBUFFERED True
# Copy requirements.txt to the docker image and install packages
COPY requirements.txt /
RUN pip install -r requirements.txt
# Set the WORKDIR to be the folder
COPY . /app
# Expose port 5000
EXPOSE 5000
ENV PORT 5000
WORKDIR /app
# Use gunicorn as the entrypoint
CMD exec gunicorn --bind :$PORT main:app --workers 1 --threads 1 --timeout 0
```

> This is important to stress these arguments `--workers 1 --threads 1` which means that I want to execute my app on only one worker (= 1 process) with a single thread. This is due to a billing reason for the process where I don't want to have 2 instances up at once because it might increase the billing. One of the downside is that it will take more time to process if the service receives two requests at once. After that I put the limit to one thread due to the memory usage needed for loading the model into the pipeline. If I were using 4 threads, I might have 4 Gb / 4 = 1 Gb only to perform the full process, which is not enough and would lead to a memory error.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It is important to note the arguments `--workers 1 --threads 1` which means that I want to execute my app on only one worker (= 1 process) with a single thread. This is because I don't want to have 2 instances up at once because it might increase the billing. One of the downsides is that it will take more time to process if the service receives two requests at once. After that, I put the limit to one thread due to the memory usage needed for loading the model into the pipeline. If I were using 4 threads, I might have 4 Gb / 4 = 1 Gb only to perform the full process, which is not enough and would lead to a memory error.
```

After that you will have a blue button labelled "edit and deploy new revision" on top of the screen, click on it and you'll be prompt many configuration fields. At the bottom you should find a "Capacity" section where you can specify the memory.

![img.png](assets/14_how_to_deploy_a_pipeline_to_google_clouds/Edit_memory.png)

## Performances
![img.png](assets/14_how_to_deploy_a_pipeline_to_google_clouds/Request_Result.png)

Handling a request takes less than five seconds from the moment you send the request including loading the model into the pipeline, and prediction. The cold start might take up an additional 10 seconds more or less.

We can improve the request handling performance by warming the model, it means loading it on start-up instead on each request (global variable for example), by doing so, we win time and memory usage.

## Costs
I simulated the cost based on the Cloud Run instance configuration with [Google pricing simulator](https://cloud.google.com/products/calculator#id=cd314cba-1d9a-4bc6-a7c0-740bbf6c8a78)
![Estimate of the monthly cost](./assets/14_how_to_deploy_a_pipeline_to_google_clouds/Estimate_of_the_monthly_cost.png)

> For my micro-service, I would plan near 1,000 requests per months, if I'm really optimistic, 500 seems more correct for my usage. That's why I worked on 2,000 requests as a security level.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For my micro-service, I am planning to near 1,000 requests per month, optimistically. 500 may more likely for my usage. That's why I considered 2,000 requests as an upper bound when designing my microservice.
```

> Due to that low number of requests, I didn't bother so much regarding the scalability but might come back into it if my billing increase.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Due to that low number of requests, I didn't bother so much regarding the scalability but might come back into it if my billing increases.
```

> Nevertheless, it's important to stress out that you will pay the storage for each Gigabyte of your build image. It's roughly €0.10 per Gb per months which is fine if you don't keep all your versions on the cloud as my version is slightly above 1 Gb, with Pytorch for 700 Mb & the model for 250 Mb.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Nevertheless, it's important to stress that you will pay the storage for each Gigabyte of your build image. It's roughly €0.10 per Gb per month, which is fine if you don't keep all your versions on the cloud since my version is slightly above 1 Gb (Pytorch for 700 Mb & the model for 250 Mb).
```

## Conclusion

> By using Transformers' sentiment analysis pipeline, I won a non-negligible amount of time. Instead of training/fine-tuning a model, I could find one ready to production and start the deployment in my system. I might fine-tune it in the future, but as what it shows on my test, the accuracy was amazing!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By using Transformers' sentiment analysis pipeline, I won a non-negligible amount of time. Instead of training/fine-tuning a model, I could find one ready to be used in production and start the deployment in my system. I might fine-tune it in the future, but as it shows on my test, the accuracy is already amazing!
```
